In the day's other news:
North Korea launched its
second intercontinental
ballistic missile
that flew higher and
farther than its first
attempts earlier this month.
This missile stayed aloft for
45 minutes, before landing
in the Sea of Japan, near the
Western Japanese
island of Hokkaido.
SHINZO ABE, Japanese Prime
Minister (through translator):
This launch clearly shows that
the threat to our security
is real and severe.
As long as North Korea
continues these provocations,
the U.S., South Korea,
China and Russia and
the whole international
community must closely
cooperate and apply
additional pressure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Pentagon
confirms that the U.S. and
South Korea together staged a
joint-live fire military
exercise in response.
The North Korean missile was
launched at a high angle.
Some U.S. analysts say that
the flight path, flattened out,
means that it could reach the
U.S. mainland.
Washington has slapped
more economic sanctions
on Iran, for launching
a rocket that can carry
satellites.
Tehran said yesterday
it successfully fired
the rocket into space.
The U.S. says the same
technology could be used in
missiles that carry warheads.
The new sanctions target
six Iranian companies
that are deemed central
to Iran's ballistic
missile program.
The prime minister of
Pakistan is out of a job.
Nawaz Sharif stepped down today,
after the country's highest
court ordered him removed
from office.
Jonathan Miller of Independent
Television News,has our report.
JONATHAN MILLER: Three thousand
armed police and paramilitary
rangers ringed Pakistan's
Supreme Court as, in courtroom
number one, a five-judge
panel met to decide the fate
of Prime Minister Nawaz
Sharif, accused of accumulating
wealth disproportionate to his
income.
Elected three times
to the highest office,
but yet to complete a
five-year term, Sharif
has been toppled in a coup,
jailed, exiled, and once
before ousted for corruption.
Would history be repeated?
Opposition glee signaled what
was a unanimous guilty verdict,
the prime minister deemed
untruthful and dishonest,
ordered to stand down and barred
from holding office, as judges
ordered a criminal investigation
which could put him in jail.
MAN: The team of the prime
minister has committed
a heinous crime by way
of fraud and forgery
of the documents.
JONATHAN MILLER: The documents
relate to posh flats in this
block on Park Lane in London.
Leaked from a legal firm
in Panama, the Panama
papers revealed that
two of Sharif's sons
and his daughter concealed
family ownership of
these through a string
of offshore companies.
Nawaz Sharif was questioned in
person by civilian and military
investigators just last month.
When he emerged, he said there
was no stain of corruption
on either him or his family,
no embezzlement, no
misappropriation of
government funds.
Tonight, he's gone,
amid calls for the U.K.
authorities to seize the
properties in question.
Sharif must now nominate an
interim successor to lead the
country until elections in 10
months' time.
He will likely remain a
potent force, now, though,
from behind the scenes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That report
from Jonathan Miller of
Independent Television News.
Israeli-Palestinian tensions
eased today at a flash point
around a Jerusalem mosque, one
day after Israel removed
new security devices.
But, elsewhere, a Palestinian
teenager was killed in clashes
with Israeli troops at the
Gaza border.
Another Palestinian was shot
and killed in the West Bank,
after attacking Israeli soldiers
with a knife.
A British baby whose
plight gained international
attention died today,
just short of his first
birthday.
Charlie Gard had a rare genetic
disease that damaged his
brain and hindered his ability
to breathe.
His parents had wanted to try
an experimental treatment here
in the U.S., but a British
court ruled that it wouldn't
help, and it blocked the move.
Back in this country, the
U.S. House today approved $3.9
billion in emergency spending
for veterans' medical care.
It is for a program allowing
vets to seek private care
at government expense.
The effort began after
a scandal over long wait
times at VA hospitals.
The bill now goes to the Senate.
President Trump talked tough
today about how police ought
to treat criminal suspects.
It happened during his
speech in Suffolk County,
New York, on Long Island
about illegal immigration
and violent crime.
At one point, he criticized the
police practice of shielding a
suspect's head as they're taken
away.
DONALD TRUMP, President of
the United States: I said,
please don't be too nice.
(LAUGHTER)
DONALD TRUMP: Like, when you
guys put someone in a car and
you're protecting their head,
you know, the way you put
your hand over -- like,
don't hit your head and
they have just killed
somebody, don't hit your head.
I said, you can take
the hand away, OK?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mr. Trump also
pledged again to -- quote --
"destroy" the violent street
gang MS-13.
Meanwhile, Attorney General Jeff
Sessions was in El Salvador,
where the gang controls
entire towns.
He said that he hopes his
efforts will help mend relations
with the president, who's been
verbally attacking him for days.
Parts of North Carolina's Outer
Banks spent a second day in
the dark, after construction
workers accidentally
cut the power supply.
Cars lined up to take ferries
off Ocracoke Island as officials
ordered a mandatory evacuation
of some 10,000 tourists.
Full restoration of power
could take days or even weeks.
And on Wall Street,
disappointing earnings
from Amazon and other
big firms kept stocks
in check.
The Dow Jones industrial
average managed to gain 33
points to close at 21830.
But the Nasdaq fell seven and
the S&P 500 slipped three.
For the week, the Dow gained 1
percent, the Nasdaq and the S&P
lost a fraction of a percent.